vPost

LOB    
vPost    

Issue    
Dangerous / Partial Dangerous Item    

Country     
All FFP    

System     
vPost Account    

Option    
Process    

3rd Party Courier    

Customers can use any 3rd party international courier company to ship their package.  
Customer to reach out to 3rd party courier companies and arrange for pickup of the package from our warehouse.  
Admin fee of $10 is applicable for FFP to handover the item to 3rd party courier companies.  
CS to request the following information from customer:  
Name of appointed courier company  
Date & Time of Pickup (At least 3 working days from the date of email)  
Shipping label from the courier company  
Merchant Invoice  
Commercial / Customs invoice  
CS needs to assign the case to – vPost CS Ops request to create a dummy invoice for the Admin Fee.  
Informed customer to proceed with the payment once dummy invoice created.  
Verify customer’s payment.  
Then assign the case to respective FFP to handover the item to 3rd party courier.  

P/S: Self-service option is not available.  

Redirection to different Address within source Country    

Customer can initiate the self – service option for Redirection request through the vPost account.  
Customer can make the payment for redirection fee in the vPost account too.  
IF customer refuse or unable to proceed with self-service option then CS to advise customer to provide written request to redirect their package.  
Assign the case to – vPost CS Ops request to create dummy invoice for redirection fee.  
Assigned the request to FFP once customer made payment for the redirection fee.  

Return to merchant    
Customer to reach out to the merchant and request for Return Label.  
Advice customer that admin fee of $6.50 is applicable for this request.  
Customer can initiate the self – service redirection option and make payment via vPost account.  
IF customer refuse or unable to proceed with self-service option then CS to advise customer to provide written request to return the package to merchant.  
Assign the case to – vPost CS Ops request to create dummy invoice for return fee.  
Assigned the request to FFP once customer made payment for the return fee.  

Discard     
Dangerous Good Package  

Obtain consent from customer to discard the whole package.  
Advise customer that there is no additional charges for discarding the package.  
CS to request the following information from customer and assign to – vPost CT Ops  
Name  
Contact No  
Email  
VP ID  
Box No  
Instruction: Discard the whole package.  

Partial Dangerous Good Package  

Obtain consent from customer to discard the PDG items and ship the rest of the packages.  
Advise customer that there is no additional charges for discarding the PDG items.   
CS to request the following information from customer and assign to FFP.  

Name  
Contact No  
Email  
VP ID  
Box No  
Instruction: Discard the PDG items and ship the rest.  

Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)    

If customer insist the item is not DG and demand for the item to be shipped to SG  

MSDS  
This form is to ascertain if the item is acceptable for shipment and if it meets safety requirements.  
Prepared and provided by manufacturers.  
It is a technical document which provides detailed and comprehensive information on a controlled product relating to  
Health effects on exposure to the product  
Hazard evaluation relating to the product’s handling storage or usage  
Emergency procedures  

CS to informed customer to provide the MSDS form.  
Assign the completed MSDS form to respective FFP.  
FFP will review the form for approval. If:  
Approved – we can proceed to ship the item through vPost  
Disapprove – Advise customer the DG item shipping option.  

Prepared by Thina (7/12/2023)
